
# Climate Change and Impacts in Africa

Task at hand is to report the state of climate change in Africa using the dataset [IEA-EDGAR CO2 dataset](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1cNhVUPKYP79AayGJp89_tXCJmHoxQO4cwiaseSziwbY/edit#gid=191680117).

I aim to use Python to explore the climate change in the different regions in Africa.
In this project, 
1. I will show the trend of CO2 levels of African Regions.
2. Determining the relationship between time (Year) and CO2 levels across the African regions
3. Test whether CO2 levels differ amongst the different African Regions.
4. Identify the industries responisble for the most CO2 production in each Region.
5. Finally predict the C02 levels in 2 years time. 

I will clean, combine and analyze on the state of climate change in Africa and  provide insights on the impact of climate change on African regions (with four countries, one from each African region, as case studies). 

## Dataset

*The dataset, IEA-EDGAR CO2, is a component of the EDGAR (Emissions Database for Global Atmospheric Research) Community GHG database version 7.0 (2022) including or based on data from IEA (2021) Greenhouse Gas Emissions from Energy, www.iea.org/statistics, as modified by the Joint Research Centre. The data source was the [EDGARv7.0_GHG website](https://edgar.jrc.ec.europa.eu/dataset_ghg70) provided by Crippa *et. al.* (2022) and with [DOI](https://data.europa.eu/doi/10.2904/JRC_DATASET_EDGAR).*

The dataset contains three sheets - `IPCC 2006`, `1PCC 1996`, and `TOTALS BY COUNTRY` on the amount of CO2 (a greenhouse gas) generated by countries between 1970 and 2021. 

### TOTALS BY COUNTRY SHEET

This sheet contains the annual CO2 (kt) produced between 1970 - 2021 in each country. The relevant columns in this sheet are:

| Columns | Description |
| ------- | ------------|
| `C_group_IM24_sh` | The region of the world |
| `Country_code_A3` | The country code |
| `Name`            | The name of the country |
| `Y_1970 - Y_2021` | The amount of CO2 (kt) from 1970 - 2021 |


### IPCC 2006

These sheets contain the amount of CO2 by country and the industry responsible. 

| Columns | Description |
| ------- | ------------|
| `C_group_IM24_sh` | The region of the world |
| `Country_code_A3` | The country code |
| `Name`            | The name of the country |
| `Y_1970 - Y_2021` | The amount of CO2 (kt) from 1970 - 2021 |
| `ipcc_code_2006_for_standard_report_name` | The industry responsible for generating CO2 |


Check out the Project [here](https://github.com/wanjiruuu/Climate-Change-Impact-In-Africa/blob/main/Climate%20Change%20workspace/notebook.ipynb)

